Gotcha, got you. Okay, we'll do. Thank you.
Thanks, Chloe.
Any other questions?
Are we gonna get a breakdown of the, evening activities for next week? Like the post 5 o'clock stuff.
Yup, today.
No pressure. Thanks, Lily. I appreciate it. My better half is asking about this stuff.
Great question. I think, yeah, you'll get it today and just at a high level, Nelson, so you know.
There's like, I know I just paid for deposit for what was it, bowling.
We're doing bowling and stuff like that. We got a bunch of like fun stuff planned and obviously it's all optional but hopefully you all have a good time.
That's right. Yeah, Lilian and Naji wipe the floor with everyone else.
We're doing bowling so Naji and I can beat everybody again.
Last time on Me both. So, and they're, they're competitive individuals, I should say.
Yeah. Alright, cool. Last call. Any other questions?
Neil, question on the drive up to Tahoe. Do we Are we planning to stop anywhere or is this gonna be straight drive?
Oh, that's a great question. So it's up to the drivers to decide if you need to take breaks or go get food or you know do whatever.
It's kind of we have a loose window for when people need to arrive on the first day on that Saturday.
So as long as you get there by the evening, you should be straight.
Gotcha, and then I'm assuming this is also coming out later today, but like. For rides themselves.
I know like on the form we're able to select if we needed one or not will we get the kind of like Hey.
Okay.
Usually released that on Wednesday or Thursday of the first week so you won't know for a while because we handle all the rental cars but it'll just be in accordance with what you put on the class roster.
And you'll sign to a carpool group and that's usually part of the retreat. A lot of people get really close with their carpool group and so we kind of do it randomly.
And we try to keep companies together, but you also be with other people.
Gotcha, thank you.
That is that is actually a great call out for just putting it in people's heads if anybody is like particularly adept at driving, let me know.
Like if you really like the drive or you're good at it. We might need a couple people to help out with driving because we have an impressively large group of folks that we're driving up.
So if you're good at it, meaning not just in general, but you can drive. Either a larger vehicle and you are comfortable driving it.
Let me know. Cause I am, but I need more people who are. Yeah.
Yeah, pay me a nail on base camp if that's you. If you're interested in driving a big car, potentially in snow.
How big are you talking?
Like, a potentially up to like a sprinter van.
Okay, I can do that but not bigger than that.
Yes, yes, yes. I don't think we're gonna have a text our school bus.
I'm, I'm not, we're not quite there. You know one day one day life goals there you go Very good, very good.
Alright, well I'll kick this off. So I, I'm gonna take the liberty of offering you all a run of show.
And I'm calling it Chicago style simply because It originated where we came from and a lot of my thought not only come from myself and my experience building businesses there, but also.
You know, our good friends over at base camp. We're the source for a lot of my, philosophical outlook on managing work and getting work done.
So the preamble here before I even give you the run of show. Is this was? A spur of the moment.
Decision to construct this as a workshop. 2 programs ago. So I was running my maybe ninth or eighth program.
And we realize a pattern that was consistent from all the classes I've ever run for text stars, which is Some founder.
Just. Are getting everything done and there's no issues and smooth failure and because they have a system in place so CEOs somehow new or had a background from before either they ran a company before they worked in efficient teams before where they knew how to organize work, build out tasks, manage projects, interest work totally on top of their game.
That is probably some of you. And if that's you, all this is going to be is a reminder and refresher of what you're already good at and what you already know or maybe a slightly different perspective than the one that worked well for you.
There's another group of you though. Who I have just as much love for. Which are folks that maybe have been efficient in a different context.
But not in the spirit of managing an early stage startup team that's going to rapidly grow and have lots of competing priorities and challenges, especially going through an accelerator program.
So for those of you who are in that category and you may not even know whether you're in that category yet.
This is meant to offer you maybe a reset opportunity for you and your team. The level of the playing field with the rest of your class to go here's how we're going to operate going in the tech stars as a team so that we're efficient, we're accountable and we're productive.
With each other and you know for our goals. So that is the purpose of this workshop. I do it together last year.
I taught it again this past program with Lilianna's help. And now I believe we're finally at a phase where this is going to be truly beneficial to you all.
And I'll give a little bit more context before, I go through some other stuff too, but let me go through the run of show first.
So we're going to go through an overview of. You know, what we do to manage projects after I give a little bit of a kind of a preamble about project management like principles and techniques.
And then we'll come back together after we do an exercise where you all kind of break into breakout groups.
So we just completed our small talk and run of show. Talking about current use cases of project management within the tech stars class and then I'll talk about project management principles.
My experience with project management. How we've used base camp at Techcars, Chicago in the Bay Area.
And then answer any questions. And that's part one. For part 2 this afternoon. Which is optional but highly recommended.
We're gonna get even more granular. So if you like what you hear in the next 2 h and you have time for more of it in the afternoon.
We're going to get even more real and get more directly personal with some of you. To actually help you all implement some of the techniques that we talk about for the next hour and a half.
If you wanna make it even more real.
Any questions about this?
Cool. All right. So I love starting off with the definition of success. I learned this from Tor Hannah Coff, our financial modeling guru slash former MD.
So here's the situation. That I've been in and I'm sure some of you have been in.
What is my team up to? What's the most important thing I need to get done today? What's falling through the cracks that I'm not thinking about?
You might know the answer to these questions, but if you don't, this is going to help you.
If you do, hopefully we reinforce it. Here's the motivation. We've been struggling, like I continue to struggle with this.
It's not ever a perfect process. But what we've learned has been super helpful and it's made us quite efficient as a theme.
And I think the tech stars recognize that. So they've been, you know, leaning on us for a lot of extra things on top of running our own program.
Because of it. But also I want to get to know you all better and how you think about management and how you get things done.
Because at the same time, like while we have things to share with you. Some of you all know way more than we do about a variety of things.
Like everyone here is on equal footing with respect to your different experiences. So if you have a unique lens on how you think about managing your work that could help other people.
I want to hear it. I wanna learn from you and I want you to share with other people in the room.
Alright, desired outcome. So better understanding of how to create and improve project management and task management systems so you can get more done with your team.
So I'm gonna play through a bunch of words. But hopefully these principles resonate and then we'll get real with some examples.
Projects are everywhere. All, you know, in every fast of the life. But they're very simply just goals broken down in actionable chunks.
So for you all, you all are essentially as CEOs or founders are also project managers because there's a set of projects that you need to get done and over time as you scale you'll have other people doing a lot of these things and helping you with them.
But right now, not only are you going to be managing the strategy of your business, but also the granular tasks that need to get done.
So as far as what project management is. It's just a process of creating structure around, you know, projects.
That's the process. So without the, you know, a structure that's intentional, you're gonna wait time, you're gonna have that in meetings, you're gonna have disorganized to do that are scattered all over the place across the variety of symptoms, lots of email threads and information scattered across too many different places.
So the way I like to think about project management is kind of like it's Cooking with the recipe.
So it's not a guarantee for success, but it's at least giving you a shot and making a really great meal.
And providing more consistency for it. So you're the few principles. No 2 projects are the same.
So as a manager or project leader, you're gonna have to figure out how to adapt each one.
And what the best approach would be. But there's principles that help no matter what. So one principle is defining goals and objectives for the project.
You will hear me say this a lot when I meet with you and you say there's something you want to get done or you need help with.
Well, what's the project? What's the goal? What's the objective? What's the desired outcome?
I'm gonna ask you that all. So if you leave with that, it's great. I had a meeting recently with a a fellow MD who's otherwise awesome, but there was a moment where, you know, they asked for my time.
They wanted some help and I said, hey, what are we trying to get done? And they didn't quite have a clear answer yet.
So I wrote down afterwards, like I'm going to politely provide feedback to this person about taking 25 min of someone else's time.
The kind of walk through not being sure of what you want. Because you should leave the meeting in conversation by stating the objective so that we can get it done otherwise we won't we don't need to be
So that's your North Star. And as far as goals, it's for 3 things.
You're activating effort in your team if you don't organize project properly, you are.
Paying a lot of money and spending a lot of resources on someone who could otherwise be delivering a lot more for you if you had it more organized.
You're directing them to relevant activities and you're making sure that they can persist over obstacle.
That's the other thing. Sometimes you paste the one to help you or they join your team and they get stuck.
And then they get nervous and they don't know how to bring it up to you that they have a problem that they need help.
So you have to put systems in place that offer them the assurance that they're going to either be able to make this kind of decision on their own as best they can.
Or there's a system in place for them to check with you before they move forward. And you've made that very clear.
Ensuring alignment. So project goals, you know, making sure they're aligned with company goals and direction.
I think I mentioned this last week. We talked about jobs to be done and how effective it is. Once you know the job, you can align everyone at the company around what there is to get done.
So defining success for that and making sure everyone's on the same page about it is super important.
So the fulfillment of a business need is the key. There's a lot of projects that when you do triage and you realize with limited time and resources you have to you know, choose one thing or over another or one thing over many other things.
What is the ultimate business need that you're facing and how do you make sure that you've directed more of your energy or most of it to those priorities and you accept the ramifications of leaving the rest behind.
So for example, Techstars often ends up on the chopping block for some companies that have competing priorities and there's an urgent moment.
So you all might have something where there's like a current situation with your business. Either it's an opportunity or it's a major problem.
I've had founders reach out to me and we like hey we need a financial model for you because we're trying to help you with your investor prep and readiness.
And they're like, look, my CTO. Has to leave the company. We're kind of in triage mode.
Here on fire, we need help. We gotta figure this out. I don't have time to finish the financial model this week.
I'm really sorry. All good. Let's talk about redirecting your energy to support you to get what you need done.
We'll put pause on what we've asked you to do and we'll give back to it when you're ready and will support you with your immediate business.
That's actually happened. And there's plenty other examples like that that come up. Project team.
So knowing who to work with. Is probably one of the most important incentive things. This may or may not be a challenge for you now.
I guarantee as you grow, it will become a like an ever increasing an exponential problem. For all the businesses that I've invested in who have, you know, either taken off or on the trajectory right now, where they're either raising like the capital.
It increasing profitability or both. Eventually, I always get the call of I can't hire people fast enough.
I need help. And there's so many things looking through the crack because of it. So talent becomes a problem once you are either well resourced.
Or your business starts to get a lot of significant traction and you realize systems start to break down that were otherwise okay when you didn't have a huge inflow of business happening.
So being ready and putting the systems in place now, not because you need it now, because your team, most of your teams could probably work really efficiently just with post accounts.
Right? And a simple Google Doc. You could probably run your business like that right now. But what about a few months from now or a few years from now.
So if you set the foundation now culturally so that you have the right systems in place to deal with scale.
You will benefit from it both now and late.
Also communication and listening. So you like one of the issues sometimes collaborating with folks is making sure when you bring your team on that you're either training them or screening them for effective communication and writing skills.
The reason is as important is a lot of the times people have different work dials. But the company needs to put reliable systems in place for how to work.
So with everyone having different preferences for how you like to be communicated to and how you like to work.
How do you consolidate those preferences into a system that's considered that for your company culturally?
So that being said, one tip I learned over a decade ago from another business was to always either hire great riders or invest in making the people who join your team.
Good writers. Because if you're a good writer, what that saves you on is having lots of unethical meetings and live conversations because folks are more comfortable writing down their thoughts.
Premeditating what they have to say, thinking it through and then sharing it asynchronously for folks who review before you have a live conversation.
Making sure you have clearly defined roles and responsibilities. This is a huge problem. With tech scars companies and early page founders in general.
A lot of the time, they'll ask you all what your job is or what you do, a CEO otherwise.
And you'll kinda like ramble off a bunch of stuff about what you're doing, but you may not have a clear idea of what you do versus what someone else does at this stage.
And even if it's imperfect. I would implore you to revisit whatever your version of that is to make sure you're on the same page for who the decision maker is for any given project.
So then you've got all this sorted out, time to deviate. You know, the tasks and get to work.
There are 2 kind of recommended pathways on our side. One is to have the leader figure it out and divide and conquer kind of playing the quarterback.
The other option is to do it as a group. And allow everyone to offer up buy-in for what they want to do.
I've exercised both techniques all the time. So one example for the first one. Is typically when program is kicking off.
I've been doing a lot of work directly with Liliana, for example, to have her own a lot of the execution of program over the years.
And we very often clear things and have her be the leader and point person and decision maker for a lot of things that used to be, either my decision or my influence.
Alternatively, we also have a lot of associates and a lot of contractors that help us out.
For each of our tech source programs. And sometimes rather than describing exactly what we want them to do.
When I know someone's really smart and talented and special and we want them to be involved, we're not quite sure how.
I'll ask them to share with me. What role they like to play in this project that we're trying to get done, whether that's ment or madness, whether that's the overall program within its demo day and once I understand their preferences and strengths.
I may share a few. Additional tips on either what we think they should be or what we need them to do on top of what they've suggested and then we find the line.
And I think that's been a very helpful, subtle managerial technique on my end where I let the people I work with identify what they think would make them happy to do and then I usually tend to more that into the needs of the company or to the to the project that we need to get done.
So the group standard approach empower the team. To delegate their own tasks. But the leadership one where you're kind of doling it out It's beneficial, especially when you have a time constraint.
Or there's something that's very time like. Either not not time bound, but like, mission critical, I guess is what I'm looking for.
The words for so Finally, developing norms. So how would you work together? How often will you meet?
How will you make decisions? And what will you use to communicate? Obviously, all of you have different answers to this at your businesses.
But if you have different answers with any members. That might deserve some. Revision. Because you want to be on the same page for what everyone's commitment will be.
As you work on a given project and task. And if you're constantly trying to play different games with different people who need to be on the same page with how they work.
I would advise you to consider having a new conversation about that consolidating your efforts. Some of you probably do daily stand ups.
Some of you might be more like my team where we don't have any standing meetings. Literally no standing meetings like there's no meeting on my calendar that's like every week or every other week where we have to like all be in the same room to talk.
Which I think throws a lot of people off because that the rare, you know, thing to operate with efficiently, but I can share more about how in a bit.
But spell up the specifics of how you're gonna work together from the beginning. And then after you've done all this, create a project roadmap.
So a roadmap, which I think you all know, it's just a way to understand the milestones of where you're trying to go and how to get there.
So relevant deliverables, who's responsible, what the timeline looks like, do your best there. And, that shared plan for, you know, getting to your goal.
It's the vision, the priorities and the steps you need to take. I say all this in these words, make sense.
But how thoughtful and how granular. Are we being really with those steps? Once we understand the vision and the priority.
So we're gonna do a few exercises today to kind of demonstrate. The potential in getting even more specific.
And then identify metrics for success. You all know this. You all know what KPIs are.
We ask you for this during the pre-programmed stuff and you probably already knew about it already as founders since it's more of a well-known thing since I think the mid 2,000.
But, API, some examples of them are like, you know, how much time you're gonna spend on a project.
Any given week or day? How many hours compared to, you know, other things that you need to do with the business?
Product customer feedback, complaint, cough. ROI. Examples of this could be things like, Like there's one thing for sure that's being expanded as you are running your project on your team.
And that's your personnel's time. Which is money. So there's one very simple thing which is like how much of their time built to how much money we're paying them, are they spending doing this as opposed to other?
So you can even measure that. Oh, sorry, Bob. I'm moving too fast in the slide.
I apologize. I didn't want to give you the text because I want to get real so I apologize.
But if you all need to, there are any questions so far, let me slow down because I'm just like running through this because I think it's like.
It feels like a review. Of information that many of you know.
You guys also interrupt with questions as much as you'd like. We love fielding questions, so we know it's a lot but we're kind of counting on you just slow us down where you have questions.
I appreciate the pace. I'll catch up with the recording later if I have to. I think that's why I'll catch up with the recording later if I have to.
I think that's why recordings exist. So thank you.
All good, Bob. No, but just so you know, if that like you're speaking up in a way that probably some people also felt but didn't have the energy to speak up yet.
So I appreciate you for that.
Keep it up.
I, I get known for that. I'm trying to just take really good and, You know, you think and you talk faster than you can write for sure.
100%. I already see a couple of hands. So let's go Christy and then Mark.
So, we have some things in place and all these things are great. Well, we get some guidance on how we can kind of.
We're gonna do that today. Live.
Assimilate things that make sense for us. So that it's a. Okay, well, thank you.
Yep, get ready. It's coming. Mark.
Can we look on the slides later? Will we have them in the in the base camp?
So you'll have the recording which has the slides and then you can do whatever you want with them from there.
I see. Okay, not the slides themselves, just the video. Okay, fine.
Correct, correct. Yep. Alright, communicate effectively. This is the last one.
Last principle, I swear. And then I have a few final things to talk about like the benefits of project management and then Lola moving to.
Like a little bit of a story for me. So. Stakeholders, business leaders, investors.
Right? Texter theme, other people. So this becomes especially relevant.
When you have a board of directors. So eventually some of you will, especially if you're planning to raise significant capital.
When you're at the series, the seat to series day stage, especially series A. You have a board, the board matters, the board can fire you as a CEO, like your communication, your documentation, your protocols are going to be essential.
Your success in progress. No, keep that in mind. And then.
Let's see, what else do I have here? I think I might be able to just jump to the last part.
Yeah, so yeah, like I said, there's no one way to do it. So what you're gonna hear from us today, like I've kind of already said, is one perspective.
So didn't know that. I, it almost feels as sensitive as like religion or politics. Like project management, styles, tools, preferences for what people think is the right way to do it, agile, waterfall, base camp, flack, like whatever.
Like I'm like agnostic. Have the tools that I use and I share them but by no means do I project that onto you as what you need to do.
So give me a foundation for your team and depending on your project, some are more important than others.
This is what's gonna hopefully help you all. So keep your employees happy is another benefit from project management.
Giving your team a clear understanding of how their what success looks like and how their performance is going to be measured.
And offering up a sense of purpose and setting clear expectations with them so that they can do their best work.
It also keeps your stakeholders happy. So if you are doing V 2 B. You can consider some of your customers like a client.
So providing ways for them to see what you're doing or how you're doing it for them or giving them a little bit more confidence that you have your, you know, your act together.
Can make a huge difference. And then lastly, it'll improve your focus. So it gives you all that efficiency that you need to be like operating under early on that can be a stigma to investors that these are the kinds of founders that I can truck.
With my money even if they need to dramatically shift their business model over time. So a few methodologies I just alluded to, waterfall, dials from.
Lean, shape up, list goes on and on, right? But what's important is for you to choose what works best for your situation, your business and your team.
And just be open to reevaluating and changing, you know, your method, depending on your, your circumstance.
But there's also challenges, right? So how do you decide which one to put time and resources into?
So some questions that are helpful. It's like, it's a problem important doesn't matter and if so, how much of the matter?
Is it the right appetite? How much time are you willing to bet on this? Is it 3 days?
Is it 6 weeks? Is it one year? And then is this the right time for it or can this wait?
How urgent is this relative to some of the other urgent matters that we need to address right now?
So one benefit from going into tech stars is that a lot of founders We're thinking about going into a fundraise.
Then they get accepted in the text card. And then they go, actually, it might make sense for me to wait until after the program.
To now make that a priority. And now I can actually afford time to work on other aspects of my business that I wasn't sure I could now.
What's really helpful is like investors give you all a lot of grace because you're going through a tech stars program.
So what's really cool is you can you actually use this experience to run experiments that you would otherwise be judged for if you weren't going to an accelerator like ours.
So they go, oh, well, what's up with this dip in revenue? Or why are your metrics changing so much over the time period?
What's this blip in your little happy spreadsheet with your like the bar graph. And you're like, well, definitely went through tech start.
We ran these different experiments, we tried a different strategy, and then we did this. That, and they said, oh, okay, that makes sense.
So it's actually a really helpful kind of cover for you to like take more risks and make a few more bets in some ways that you may have been less comfortable doing so beforehand.
Avoiding scope creep. I'm sure you all know what this is. I know the tech people in the room do like anybody who's done software engineering or product development.
Scope prep is, is Very dangerous. It's when the goal of your project shifts after it's already underway.
So you're like, oh, we actually need to do this instead. And we need to do more or we need to, you know, do some of this on top of that.
And unfortunately, when you have so many different competing priorities. How do you incorporate them in a way that's actually, structured and methodical?
So imposing limitations on what you're willing to do versus not do for any different projects is also super important.
Does anybody have any thoughts or suggestions on a good way to impose a limitation on a project so that you're not taking you know, on too much or experience in scope creep.
What have you done in the past to avoid taking on too much?
Bob.
Yeah, I've worked in a lot of different types of whether they're program management methodologies or software development methodologies from.
Waterfalls, scrum, and technically can band isn't one of them, but people you have used canband for software development.
I don't hold it against them. But one of the ideas I try to keep in mind since I've been a tech lead against them.
But one of the ideas I try to keep in mind since I've been a tech lead on many teams as well is there's 3 things that you lock down you have your scope you have your due date and you have the amount of resources that can contribute and you have the amount of resources that can contribute to delivering the amount of resources that can contribute to delivering the committed to scope by the due date.
And if you want to change scope, you have to give on the other 2 as well that can contribute to delivering the committed to scope by the due date.
And if you want to change scope, you have to give on the other 2 as well. They're essentially a triangle that, you know, triangulate and keep each other stable.
That's right.
So if you want to increase scope, you have to either increase resources or change the due date. But also the folks who are doing the work are the ones making the commitment to the due date and the scope from the outset and then more of the agile environments and so.
I'm not trying to pick on, you know, Vince knows this product managers, but like, usually scope creep comes from somewhere.
So understanding where that comes from and negotiating. Maybe not now, but later. And working on that skill set and establishing those communication norms is one of the things you could do to help manage it.
And then if it continues to be a problem for your team. Shortening your due date. Durations like the buckets of your iterations like instead of doing a two-week sprint do a one-week sprint so that you could be a bit more flexible and it's less costly to try to increase scope.
Can help, but you still want to address where that scope creep ask is coming from. As part of your like came retro and norms to say like we gotta get better at this because we want to be predictable.
We want to be consistent and we want to also deliver the most value as soon as possible. They're sometimes in contention with each other.
So being on the same page about that as a team I think is super useful versus having it come directly from a PM or only the PM or edge manager is the one who's responsible for thinking about it and the rest of the team are just doers.
You want a team that's more than just human resources.
I mean, you said it so well, Bob. I appreciate you and just to reiterate something I heard you say that I strongly agree with.
I think making sure that you manage different expectations when the situation changes because you can't just go, we're gonna change the scope of the project.
We have different things to do now, but we're not addressing the fact that the due date hasn't changed or the resources haven't changed or the people involved in their expectations haven't changed.
All of those things get adjusted. When you make the adjustment to the desired outcome or the expectation.
That's a really great point. Thank you. Nelson.
Yeah, I'd say that You know, I've been exposed to a lot of, good project management and where I struggle a little bit is.
Yeah.
In in the startup context, how much just enough. Right. Cause like when you're working with clients as a consultant, right?
You set up this whole program management apparatus in your. Wasting untold hours on just communication and documentation.
And then the startup, like, you kinda wanna move faster, you don't wanna like just.
Yeah.
And a lot of time writing about the thing you want to do the thing. And so I've been sort of like, on both edges of the spectrum right like really locks down change management blah blah blah you know and then over here like Lucy Goosey everybody's just running around doing whatever they want and I'm trying to figure out like where the needle is.
That ideal thing that balance to strike.
Okay, and you know what might be helpful Nelson is taking stock of where you're at today And then we can all react and respond to it.
So hopefully, maybe I'll count on you to share more about where you're at. When I have, when I make the call, for example.
So we'll give that a shot, but would love to work with you on that. Cause like you said and I said.
Everyone's situation is different. But even at the startup phase, even in our little context, like we're all not created equal in this sense.
Like we're all startup, sure. We're all going to text our sure, but we have very different businesses.
Some of you might need different structures in different systems because of that. Awesome. Alright, so here's my recommendation for avoiding scope creep.
Is don't just stay it in a meeting and hope that someone is going to do it. Get everything in writing.
If you get it in writing, all of a sudden there's no more confusion about what someone said they would do versus what's getting done, what the priority was, what it is.
It's been writing you can go back and go, well, this is what was said. Right, let's revise what we're saying or how thorough we're explaining what we're going to do if for some reason there's something broken about what we agree to.
Also we mentioned setting appetite. This is language that we're borrowing from, you know, shape up, which we're going to read together in the book Love and.
Those of you interested even outside of that. That the a methodology for product development that we teach here.
But making sure that you have balancing, you know, protocols for when you extend deadlines versus when you don't.
How to reassess the goal versus taking to it and staying true to it and what have you. And also understanding the true cause.
So time, I mentioned it earlier, but like time based. Allocation of resources. So at the minimum you're spending real money on people's time.
To do work in different projects. So you have to understand what the stunt cost might be. And knowing where to stop.
And when to stop. So, keeping these principles and tools in mind as you move forward, it's going to help you with strategy.
And I'll get a little bit more personal now about my own background in this. But just know that over time your thinking on this might shift.
As mine has. So I've struggled through project management ever since I was in college. You'll hear my story next weekend.
Hopefully for those of you coming, I hope most of you, if not all of you are coming, there's usually a gap in the founders that hear my story unvarnished at that week at that retreat versus the ones do here in a different context.
But, Does anyone remember? This device. The Palm Trio. You remember the Pong Trio?
Who knows the P? Nelson knows the Bong Trio. So this was like, oh my super weapon back in the day.
So this is 2,005. I think 2,006 yeah around then is when Google docks beta went out So I was like one of the early users of Google Docs when they launched.
And I managed to like get the Google Excel spreadsheets. Show up in my palm trio as the whole full nerd.
When I started my first business. So I was 18 years old who raised a quarter 1 million in angel capitol and I'm driving around the state of Illinois going into doctors offices selling with my Bluetooth Plantronics headset.
My ridiculous suit and time, 18 years old, trying to look older than I am. Do I have my dad's 1986?
I'm Volvo Station wagon. That was about the fall apart. So that was me driving around trying to do business and health care, you know, and and and doctors offices.
But with that being said, Google Docs was my first like true tool for project management when I got started.
I have a photo. I can I can share I can I'll dig it up. I'll show you a photo.
Back then it's pretty ridiculous. Then, as y'all might know, many years later, like 5 years later, so I started a coding school.
And I use this this tool called backpack. Which was one of the product suites from 37 things back in the day without the May base camp.
So this was actually a backpack screenshot, but I'm not sure why base camp is highlighted, but I took an old reach out of that tool.
Then afterwards, or while I was doing that, I tried another tool called Huddle. So this is basically you can see the dates like this is like 2010 back then.
So I used another tool and then does anyone know this tool? This looks familiar to anybody. Any coders in the room?
What is it? What app is this?
It's similar to.
Looks like.
Tracker.
Pivotal tracker, who said it?
I'm a little tracker, yeah, that's what I was gonna say.
Oh.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, that's way back. So pivotal tracker was like my thing.
Like I broke down. Everything in my life, in pivotal trackers. I basically have my little combat board or whatever and then something really cool happened.
And base camp.
And 37 signals decided to invest in my company. And when they did, one of the things that they asked me to do with my business.
If teach some of their team members. The web framework that they had invented as a company, but they had a lot of people working at the company that were non-technical.
So I taught Ruby on rails. To the company that invented Ruby on Rail.
It was very, very strange. But awesome. And one of the tools that came out of it from one of their team members, their employees was this app called Dayboard.
Which was basically a way to like have a very simple to do list like what am I gonna do today and it was like one place where it lived it was a really cool like thing and I worked with him on on building it out and he ended up leaving the company and like turning this into his own thing and doing a few other entrepreneurial projects.
Another thing that I chanced upon that a lot of folks ask me about when it comes to productivity is this thing called The Pomodoro technique.
I know some of you said it with me. So this was when I was learning how to code. This was like my secret weapon.
So I believe, PhD student somewhere wrote a book. Because he developed the studying methodology that allowed him to make a lot of progress.
By working in 25 min increments with 5 min breaks instead of 4. And then taking a 30 min break.
So it became just like very quantifiable. Means for me to manage and monitor my own productivity.
And I turned it into like a system in a game for the team I was working with when we were like learning how to code and starting the first code in school.
So highly recommend it. It takes. A special kind of person to like truly leverage it and stay true to it because there's a lot of technical verifications to what a Pomodoro is, what it isn't.
For example, some people claim that they work in 25 min increments on disrupted but you check your phone when you get notifications you take phone calls you take you know breaks but you step aside you open up other apps and windows that's not a pomodoro y'all if you know But happy to nerd out about that later.
Email. We all use that for productivity. Google Docs, Facecam, Huddle, Pivotal Tracker, Base, Gem too.
Base game 3, base camp 4. Lots of tool that I just presented to you. But before I continue.
What are your tools and why do you use them? I wanna hear from a few folks that are passionate about whatever your favorite app tools and methodologies might be.
You can call out a few of them. I'm just curious, want to get to know you better.
I'm a linear guy.
Oh yeah, I know linear. So if you found a few that's been on the ride lately.
Especially for the more tech oriented and heavy projects, right? Linear has done a lot of good stuff.
Yep.
Yeah, it's it's got a really cool integration with the Yes, and I do my own.
Get. Implementation. I use get T instead of GitHub. Just self hosted deal there.
So yeah, that's kind of my stack
Yeah, yeah, I'm super curious. I haven't tried linear myself, but I've most of the CPOs that I've interacted with have been huge fans of it.
It's beautiful. It's really like it's a great experience.
Yeah. That's awesome. I'm seeing notion things. Oh, things have been around for a long time.
Things was like, 2,009, 2010. I remember when I, the first one came out, I used it.
Anyone else?
I use, forests. I think it has it enables you to set similar to Pomodoro by the Nambu's, time, for projects, but then you can set 60 min, 1 h, 3 h.
Yep.
And then for each of the time you plant the forest something like that but it's a very nice app for productivity.
Yeah. Yeah, tools are so much fun, to play with. And when new ones come out, you get excited.
So I saw on the chat I think there was like Trello and Jira. I don't know if I saw Asana, but that usually comes up a lot.
Click up is another good one. I saw old school, Jalo, PIN and paper, right?
Like just like very simple writing it down. Notion is obviously I think that's the tool of choice for a lot of tech cars programs.
So. Before I talk about how we use Basecamp to run our tech stars team. I want to offer up a little bit of context because the example I'm sharing with you is when I was I think at peak.
Project management prowess. Protect their Chicago. And the reason I'm doing that is because I don't want to confuse you.
Because when we join the Bay Area in the fall our team accomplished the very unique feat. Of running 3 programs across 3 different cities at the same time.
Which have never been done before. And will very likely never be done again. It will well, I think our founders were satisfied with the experience and we use a very intense version of this to manage.
Multiple different cities at the same time for project management. So rather than share that madness of complexity that Lilian and I and others had to kind of construct.
I'm gonna focus just on one program because that's how we operate. We're operating going forward and that's how we operated previously and there was this is blip in time for the past 6 months or so that was a little crazy.
But if you really want to know or see it, I'm happy to walk you through that some other time.
But it was it was kind of cool. Just think of like 2 or 3 x orders of magnitude I'm about to show you and that's what we kind of had to manage across 3 programs.
In 3 cities at once. So here's the bird that view of how I think about project management for tech stars.
Which is obviously gonna be different for all you all with your startup teams. But at a high level in base camp, like Liana showed you, she has lots of projects that you don't.
Here's what we had, in Chicago. So. We had a leadership group with like kind of our top level strategy.
We had our, JP Morgan program team. So that was like our Jpmorgan Chicago program for Techstar.
And we had a program team for, you know, Kate and Sophie and, you know, Brad and Anthony at the time.
We're now like Nazi and Flowy, folks like that. We have our EIR, our entrepreneurs and residents where we had a place for them as well where we supported them and talk to them about how the founders are doing.
We had a place for the CEOs, which we have here. We have a place where we were running hybrid.
So some of the founders who were in person all the time. Meaning in market like it's for those of you staying in Oakland or thing in San Francisco.
Throughout the program might want to create a different faith for you because you're doing more on the ground or in person things than others.
We had our book club. We had a few projects, so program off documentation, portfolio and alumni support.
So that's where. The 100 plus company that we've worked with so far, we have a ticket.
Where we kind of work on their needs. Taking in their end vector update, their emails, their request to us, and how we manage and dole out those priorities and responsibilities.
We have a store thing project. So that's to make sure that we're actually seeking out.
The right founders and getting them to apply to our program. And then on top of that, Liliana and myself and Philthy run the Rising Star Fun at Techcards.
It's kind of a low key. Like kinda not quite. As public or prominent fund but we raised it we invest through it we have founders in many of these classes like Christie who have you know received investment from that fund.
And then last but not least, and this is just a bonus for myself along with Lianna and now Sophie is we also teach at the university.
So I teach at Northwest University at the business school and at the engineering school. So those are a couple of extra projects for those class.
But that's everything everywhere all at once for me. Right, that's like my whole life.
That my work I have it all broken into thoughtful projects so when I think about what needs to be done I don't need to Go to sleep, stressed out.
I don't need to walk down the street worried about where something is or what needs to be done.
I have a home for literally my entire work life and priorities and that home should hold whatever I need to put in it.
Rather than it living within my head.
So at the leadership level at the top level, which many of you probably have a version of, that was when I was working directly with, you know, my program team at the time was a Lianna, another individual by the name of Brash Fitzer who you're going to meet next week.
And then Anthony Aleper, who's still in Chicago helping run those programs. This is where we at a very, very high level.
Set the direction for what we want to get done. So if you zoom in a little bit and you notice under to do, you see this little hill chart.
And you can see like the biggest of big rocks. That aren't actually as clearly defined, where when you look at them now, you're not quite sure what to think of them, right?
So it's almost a name of a of a team or a project. So are these over the line?
Over the hill, if you will, and we're tracking the progress over time for each of these projects.
So the breakdown of this though is very slimmer to if you look at Chicago JPM, 2023 program team.
That cascades down into a set of goals to do so lists and tasks for us. So in a very separate phase from this leadership place where we're tracking our high level strategic priorities, I go down one layer deeper to that specific project.
Chicago JPM, 2,023 program team. And I have a whole list of what needs to get done.
And in this list, our other list. So if you notice the person assigned to a lot of those tedious at the time was Liliana.
So what we did for the program is we were laying out week by week. Everything that needs to happen.
For this program to run effectively. And as we break that down. There are dedicated places for these to do that are listed here.
To be spelled out into more discreet and granular steps.
Here's what it looks like at a slightly high level. So I just zoomed in to one place, right?
I went from here to Chicago, JPM, 2023 program team and I'm showing you this list.
But there's also this thing called the Hill Chart. That zooms out one step higher to show you the scope of the work that we're trying to manage for the program.
Lilianna.
Yeah, can you go back to where we have like all the weeks? Yeah. This hierarchy piece is really the main piece of what makes this project management strategy that we're showing you so different and unique.
The top level view that Neil sees of a program allows him or any CEO of a startup to effectively know what's going on from a bird's-eye view without being bogged down by the minutiae.
So there are a lot of different things that go on in each of those weeks that is spelled out in the program team project.
But Neil doesn't need to know those things. He just needs to know if Demoday invites our ship if week 8 is planned and executed.
He doesn't need to see all of that. So this is something that I see a lot of CEOs doing because you guys wear so many hats.
You have to trust team members. You have to be able to delegate and then just let them give you a bird's-eye view instead of having your mind all the way down kind of through the entire.
Hiarchy of tasks.
Yes, and Liliana and I had a conversation about what it means to check off one of these top level to do's.
What does it mean to check off week 7? What does it mean that week 7 is planned? Right?
You can't just say that it's planned and I hope that you're right. We have to define together what those parameters are of what planned means.
Plan, I believe, only I correct me if I'm wrong, means. That you all get the weekly what to expect message on Friday afternoon.
So if you get that message that explains what the plan is for the next week. That's what we mark this done.
Do I have that right, Liliana? I think that's what we talked about. Yeah.
Yeah, that's the high level thing. Yeah. And then any food being ordered, basically all the ops stuff is done as well.
And we discussed that. Beforehand.
Right.
Yeah, 2 things. One, I'm gonna put a finer point on what you guys just said coming from career of software development.
Yes.
We call that the definition of done and as a team aligning on what that means means everybody has the same idea that they're not just throwing something over the wall and thinking it's done.
What has done me? Yep.
Like as a team we commit to that whole thing being done, tested, deployed. Method. But then, question.
Is this hill thing like this is new to me, but I think it's very interesting. Is that essentially?
Like breaking down all of those lists of lists and projects of projects and then as you burn down that entire body of work is that how you cross over the hill okay that's cool
Yes. Yeah, yeah, so you're getting up the hill to figure things out and lay it all out because when you start a lift.
It's never the full list. If you think you have it all laid out, like this is exactly what we need to do.
But then you start doing it and then the list start to the world. Because there were unanticipated tasks and factors that you didn't know initially, but as you began working, come up.
So that's the figuring things out, bathing getting over the hill. And then once you're over it, making it happen is getting all the work done.
Once you have a better and clearer idea of what needs to be accomplished. That's the notion of getting over the hill.
So one thing I alluded to very quickly here though was I talk about projects, but yet there's also this thing called Teams, right?
So their teams and their projects, how do we reconcile how you manage a group of people who have a more consistent need to have a dedicated place to manage work versus specific initiatives that are time-bound that should be done when they're done.
And then you move on. So there's 2 different constructs that we operate with, right? So we have dedicated teams and then we have specific projects that may have a variety of needs and and parameters around them.
So, our program team has a different, a slightly different structure than what, a given specific project would.
And then the ability to track progress over time. Get into the more granular state with that hill chart.
So before I showed you all the hill chart here. Where it's like my high level. This is Neil's kind of bird's eye view.
And then here at the more granular level, this is where Lilianna at the time was operating, managing our team member to get work done.
Myself included. So these are just a list of some of the examples of what we were trying to get over the hill.
As you saw, there were plenty of things that already made it over the hill between weeks 0 and 7 that are no longer here because one of the goals of any given to-do list is to archive it when you're done.
To be done with it, to move on. You can always go back and check with your progress, but it doesn't have to clutter the space that you're in anymore.
So we're always looking forward at the vote to backward. So we get all these laid out.
And then now on the sourcing front, here's another example of something I think is really helpful is like observing our portfolio companies and how we're supporting them.
So you might see like this is kinda how we manage like we call our tech stars program season. So you may have noticed on the intro file when you joined this meeting, I had season 10 and 11 for Oakland.
So it's kind of like a reality show, if you will, except my own private like.
You know, workshop that I get to watch. That's what you all are because all you all are crazy and hilarious.
You'll see next week, I'm sure. But it's just like always entertaining.
That being said, we want to make sure that we're tracking everything going on with you all and how we're supporting you and what requests you make of us versus what requests you make of the greater network that we can help monitor and manage.
And I'll be the first to say like we still have a lot of work to do to do a better job here.
Sometimes it's been robust, other times it's kinda falling off and we just kinda like, like whack a mole and respond your requests and get it done and don't document it as well as we could or should.
So there's still a lot of room to, you know. Grow there. However, what this does is it allows head space.
It gives me the peace of mind where I can see everything in one place no longer am I walking around with the burden of worrying about what I've forgotten to do.
Right? Oh, there's that other thing or they need me to do that or work on this thing.
And instead what I do is really special thing is I'll click my stuff. In base camp and then I'll see all of my work.
Laid out. So I know what I need to get done in a given week. So this is an old screenshot from, you know, last year, but this is what I had going on that week when I was presenting this for the first pound to founders.
But I had like kind of like a layout of all of my tasks and priorities. All organized in one single place that allowed myself to see what I need to get done.
On that day and throughout the rest of the week. Very, very clearly. Another thing that's been really powerful for us is asynchronous communication.
So the way we've managed to do that. Is something I also learned from Jason. Over base camp.
Which is I use these automatic check-ins. This is a tool in base camp, but it's something that you all do in some form or another already.
You either do it because you have stand-up meetings, you have weekly meetings, or you have people write an update in Slack or some other way of communicating this.
Here's our way. What are you working on this week that the bottom left one? That picks off the week.
Alright, what's everyone up here this week? They lay that out. At the end of each day.
Monday through Thursday. What'd you get done? At the start of every morning. Tuesday through Friday.
What do you working on today?
At the end of the week. On Friday, would you work on this week? So this encapsulate.
All of the work. And it does it in a very succinct and helpful way. So now we're no longer bogged down with having to have round robin conversations about what we're working on.
You've taken the time to think through and write down what you have going on. You share it with your team.
And it allows the team to go, wait, but what about this thing? That you didn't write down that I think is important for you to understand what's going on this week or work on or prioritize.
Or someone sees what you said you're gonna do and they go actually that thing that you're saying you're gonna do, I think I can do that instead.
And maybe this will free you up to focus on the other thing that's important to you. Maybe I can lend a hand.
So allows us to communicate with each other to understand what's on each other's plates. And then Linda helping hand and or add additional work if we realize that there's either space to do so or it's important to do so.
This seems simple, but it's a lot of work. And it's really hard to stay true too.
I can't tell you how many times as a team we have fallen off from being consistent about providing these updates.
Because of how hard it can be because so many things come up in your lives or with your work that can derail you from having the discipline and the bandwidth to make this a priority on any given day.
So I know what I'm sharing with you here is Oh, probably for many and more aggressive than what most would prefer.
But I have found this to be. Such a timesaver like it's like probably one of the ultimate like kind of project or leadership managerial life hacks that I've experienced.
Bob.
No worries.
Yeah, sorry if I'm monopolizing the conversation. I had a mentor tell me I should be very generous.
Throughout the accelerator as much as I can. So I love what you're talking about here and one of the things that, I try to keep in mind as part of this exercise, I'm sure other folks who've done software engineering jobs are worked in an agile context or used to.
Yes.
The idea of a daily scrum or a daily stand-up and the value being that synchronization of highlighting like you said unblock like blockers to help each other get on blocked but also the point being ensuring that we're all still pulling in the same direction and as a group with our shared commitments.
Helping each other move forward as much as we can. Adding the asynchronous component to it makes it even more effective because then you don't have to disrupt like your state of flow to do this, but.
The value of having regular synchronizations about what we are all working on and are we still all pulling in the same direction or are we veering off and that level of accountability combined with the ability to, you know, I need support over here like, you know, cover my right flank or whatever like the way you want to think about it is enables us to get even more done, even more focused and like stack our waves on
top of each other. And magnify our collective output versus what a meeting might do. Where we're all paused just to talk about something.
Synchronously and like if you're used to thinking in computer science terms like doing this asynchronously is even more powerful as long as you're still keeping you know aligned and and synchronized
Bye, I appreciate you. Feel free to be generous with your thoughts. I love people who participate because the fact that you spoke up.
Just gave space for and Tony O'brien and Matthew to raise their hand and speak up as well.
So at the very least that was worth it just for that, but I also agree with your perspective. So thank you for that.
Let's hear for you guys, Antonio.
I see this is a really powerful tool, frankly, and, you know, one thing that I've been struggling is the fact that because we are bootstrapping, we've been strapping until now is, you know, we We have a few quite a few contractors.
We have a full-time job and you know helping us a few hours a week and I think this is gonna really organize the entire team to do a synchronous work and be more a feature and effective.
In the work we do. Now one question I have when I look at my base camp I don't see all these features.
I like that graph that hill graph. And I think is it because I need to sign up, I need to create an account just for my team.
Is that and I invite everyone in my team or I can use the the, technology. I'm still trying to getting familiar with base camp.
Okay.
No problem. So all of the features that you've seen. Are available to you right now. But they're hidden in places because we're not trying to overwhelm you.
With too much at once. Cause it can be overwhelming to learn a new tool. So that being said, Lilian, I'm not sure if you're able to speak up, but I don't know if the base camp tutorial kind of list that you made originally is still available where people learn the in and out of out of a pro user.
Yeah, I made a it's about a year out of date because there I haven't gone back.
Okay.
But everybody here has access to hill charts. You just have to enable it. By clicking the 3 dots when you when you're looking at your page of to do's you just click the 3 dots in the top right if that's something that you'd like to experiment with.
And if anyone wants to go through the tutorial I've made, it's extremely in depth.
It would come up as a separate project that I would add you to and it's just 2 sets of to-do lists that you can go through at your own pace.
There are a couple of things that are out of date, but it's pretty much still extremely helpful.
I had some people last program go through it.
Great. Brian.
Yeah, sort of curiosity. Does different reporting styles come into context here. You know like some people might be very resolved writing, you know, their reports and other people might give too much information kind of thing.
He's standardizing a reporting still something we should consider when taking this approach.
Over time, sure, it's more of a field thing I would say, Brian, because I think what happens is so I'll give you an example.
So not naughty on our team. Is more of like out in the field. Right? With what he does, like he's out there trying to find the next great class of companies, usually.
So his work and what he has going on is usually quite different than the rest of the folks on our team.
We're executing the day to day of the program. So his updates will look quite different in that like he's usually lifting out what events he's going to and what founders he's helping and what meetings he has or if some of us will have to get into more granular detail about something logistically.
Or a particular situation that we're dealing with with helping a founder overcome something in program itself. So you allow the team members to kind of use it.
Or however they see fit. I'm less stringent where I don't have protocols for like how long it needs to be or whether it need to be bulleted or written out.
I tend to be even more verbose with my updates and high level, whereas others like Liliana will like list out a lot of stuff going on.
She tends to have a lot of volume with the work that she's doing to just managing so many parts and pieces.
But it varies. Matthew.
Yes.
And then. This is great. I think what you said. You know, is all this requires a lot of discipline and probably disciplines everybody because if somebody doesn't do everything as, you know, as whether the agreement is then everything can fall upon which just because which just one person not doing.
Yeah.
Doing the right thing. My question was, could you talk about how you, handle things when, things go wrong when things derail when things are, not on track.
Yes
I'm personally a big fan of just like. You know synchronous 101 conversation to Realign things but just curious to hear your your thoughts on that.
I think that is usually appropriate. The synchronous one on one conversations are very appropriate when you get to that point.
That being said, sometimes you don't always have that luxury. Right, what if you're operating on very different time zones with someone?
What if, you're in very different places or you have so much going on that you can only afford to ride it out because you can't find time to meet.
Because you're working with them in part time. This was a lot of constraints where it's important to know how to handle it.
I think, asymptom, where it's important to know how to handle it, asynchronously, even if synchronous is more effective.
But I guess the other thing I would say is I really became a champion of this once I became a programmer.
Yeah.
Once I started writing code. And now the part of the work in addition to like business and leadership and being a CEO.
Then I was like, oh. I need to make sure that I don't have anything on my calendar this afternoon.
Because if I have a bunch of things that break up my ability to focus on what I need to get done.
From writing software that's going to be rail my ability to do that at my best and I'm going to be thinking about those conversations in those meetings and step.
Or competing with them in my head. So this way of working is optimized for, I think, flow state.
And long, long periods of uninterrupted work.
So that's kind of where I was at with how I designed this. And this is by no means a prescription to all of you to operate this way.
I'm demonstrating and sharing my example of how I prefer to work.
All right.
Thank you.
And, which challenges or resistance that you enter when you are implementing this kind of way of working.
Yes.
These kind of projects, management when, You know, I'm sorry you sold that.
I think the biggest challenge of that face, Felipe is been getting by in. So one and it's more of a challenge I've observed with founders than I have with myself anymore because I think I've overcome that challenge to a certain extent.
When I'm full functional with my team, it's like I brought you on. You're part of my team.
I need you to operate and work this way. Like I'm gonna demonstrate the benefit to be doing it so you appreciate it and value it.
But it's also an expectation. It's not like I'm not trying to debate with you about how we're gonna operate.
This is how we're gonna operate. Like this is how we're gonna. So I think maybe a lot of you will have to overcome that because you'll probably you're dealing with someone that you're trying to you know, bring on to like.
Keep them happy like maybe you have a CTO who knows that they're hot shit and they're like I want to work like this and you're like yeah but I want the company to work like this.
Yeah, but I wanna do it. You're like, okay, all right, how are we gonna balance this out?
So you, you have to do some work to make sure that you're on the same page and want the same thing.
But usually you can find that like, By the way, side note, I love the call out of Loom in the chat.
I'll just say, the founder of Loom. Was this young guy who would hang out in Chicago and go to a bunch of Chicago events to heed and I know him because he was just like a young kid who was like at the startup events doing the hacker amount or whatever and I'm so proud of him because he just told Loom for I think what, 975 million
dollars. Did last year pretty wild, but I love seeing those success stories especially coming out of Chicago.
Cool. Alright, I'm almost done y'all. I promise. So, everything is commendable in context.
So, Lilian, I alluded to this. This is why we duplicate the calendar events from the Google Calendar.
In base camp going forward. So next week all of you are asking about the schedule. I know it's tough.
Cause we're still finalizing a lot of things going into the first week. But once we have it final and you have it all there, it's so helpful to see things in context.
When you go, what was that event we had in week 10, let me go back to that workshop that David Cohen had taught us how to do fundraising, which all of you are going to participate in by the way, which is one of my favorite workshops.
But I don't know if you see the Easter egg in the comments from last year, but Nithreen who spoke to Yale yesterday was the one who was put up to actually do the fundraising.
Exercise with Cohen in front of. Like hundreds of people who were on that call because we do a big group call with all the text cars classes that are running at the time with David Cohen.
So she did it and arguably did one of the best jobs ever that I've seen at least in 5 years of holding her own and having a fundraising conversation with an investor who was giving her a hard time in that exercise.
So that was really, really cool. Also I have this notion of earning the meeting. So a lot of the times you all as founders and as CEOs a lot of people are gonna want to meet with you your team.
Other folks outside folks who either want your business who want to collaborate with you, whatever. The reason I say earn the meeting.
Is that what work have you done up to that point? To avoid us needing to have the meeting in the first place.
You know, have you asked the right questions? Have you taken the right steps? Have you done the right prep work?
Do you have an agenda? Do you know what the goal would be? Have you done everything you can to avoid taking 30 min or 1 h of a bunch of other people's time?
Before you need to do this. Usually the way most of us operate is we use the meeting as like.
A cover for not having got through things that we could have thought through already. Or in a different way.
So I just wanted to challenge you all the question, the thing that you have on your calendar and why you have them there and if you could remove some maybe just take the time to write it out or document it somewhere thoughtfully.
Okay, so let me see I have a few more things to cover here. So one thing I wanted to do.
Is take the time to have a few demonstrations from others about what you have going on this week. So for the remaining time that we have.
I would love for you all to prepare. Or you might already have it ready. Prepare a list.
Of your to do for either this week or next week. I know it's the end of the week.
So let's just say next week. So I can change this actually to say next week. But you're confused for next week.
If you have them. Gather them, put them together. Do you need a few minutes? Should I play a song and let people go find them or are they already readily available?
Are they at your fingertips? What's the appetite here? Who's ready to share right now?
Nobody? Oh, Valeria, you got it?
Yeah, my to do list. I use a right now a program called tickic, which is just like.
Let's see it.
That check app essentially a checklist app. I have Quite a bit of stuff to do next week.
Show us.
I wanna like Read, oh my god, okay, there, let's just disorganize those, so just.
Yeah, that's the point. I know. Let's do it.
Oh, okay, yeah. I'll share my screen. So overdue, without moving them all to next week.
Huh.
I wanna, so every time I like make changes to marketing website, I find like 20 more changes I wanna make.
And so I also, there's like. Website updates I know I need to do and then also just the ones I added here which is I want to like continuously add to the Q&A section.
This one actually I did so I can actually check up on that. This one also I did, but.
I also want to add privacy policy in terms and conditions to our website just because like we haven't done that yet and that's important and so I was going to reach out and ask advice about that.
Send out more interviews links for jobs to be done. I have to make sure that like a mentor of mine accepts an application for a pitch competition that we got invited to.
This is like a marketing research firm and wanted to look into like some of their methodologies out of curiosity.
This is like a habit I do every single day where I like message 10 accounts as like a cold. Reach out, just to get more customers.
So also do, scheduling, after email, like a shipping, company. Like these are all things that are just like, I know I have to do them and it.
It looks like a mess, but it makes so much sense in my head when I look at it. And then.
Yes.
Yeah, so That is my really messy to-do list.
Okay.
This is awesome. So I, I thank you one for sharing it and you've inspired something that we're going to do a lot now.
So I'm going to use your help. You can stop screen sharing for now. We either may have you come back or adjust.
This is what I'm gonna do, y'all. Cause it's 1120 we have 40 min and I'm not gonna keep you all on this call because I have something cool that I want folks to do.
So either CEOs or in collaboration with the CEO, other team members. For the remaining time we have, I have a favor to ask.
So for those of you who don't know the CEOs all have one dedicated base camp project.
So what I'm going to do real quick is I'm going to show you all that project.
I'm gonna screen share real quick. Cause this is what we're gonna do. Cause this is going to help us for the afternoon.
I'm going to go and set up a tool.
And I'm gonna add to those. Is this for both, I'm not gonna hold you off to it, but just for the sake of today in this example, I'm gonna demonstrate this.
But now the CEOs protect stars. Oakland. Have a to do section. And I'm gonna do a list based on what Larry just said.
Thank you.
Yeah.
So what I want is a to do list for each company to exist right here. So what we're going to do, we're gonna have you put those to do that you have for next week.
We don't have to do anything else, but as a CEO of Fishship. You have things that you want to get done next week when you start text ours, right?
Yeah.
So by the end of next week, I want to know what the things are between now and the end of next week should be on this slide.
And what I want to see. Is that for each of you.
And if you take the time to fill that out for the next 30 min. In your own time in your own way, however you see fit, you organize them as in whatever way you see fit, you can either drop in what you already have, you can tweak them to reflect what you would want them to be.
I don't really care. But I promise you, if you all do to me that's all the CEOs and you fill out this list and if you're the CEO isn't on the call let me know and we'll find a way to have you fill it out in a different way.
But do that. And then when we come back this afternoon. We'll teach you all.
The final phase of this exercise, which is how to actually break down those to do's into actionable steps that allow you to have more granular and clear pictures to what you're actually trying to get done.
Maybe some of you already know that and maybe you'll be perfect and will be good to go and you can just leap.
But I think a lot of you might benefit from seeing us teach this technique to a few of you who would be great examples.
I see a question. J low.
Okay, so for these to do's that we create on the CEO project board. This is specifically just for the CEOs so or is it still visible?
Well, think about it. Well, as a CEO, you want everyone to get it done, right?
Right.
So to do for you would be to see if someone else was doing something to make sure that they did it.
By the end of next week.
Right. So, but. I'm just trying to see how everything's interconnected because if we have a to do list on our CEO board.
Huh. Yeah.
For Travis, but we also have our Kavaras project board with our own to do list.
How are they? Connected or not? Okay.
This is a master. This is new. This is a new space for a new job. Neil.
You're making director for your tech there's program is asking you, JLO, CEO, to lay out your high level.
Okay. Okay.
Goals and or to do's for the next week. That's it. That should reflect all the things that the people on your team are doing.
Cool. Thank you.
Pardon.
Yep.
Okay, can you guys hear me okay? Oh, I'm a technical solo founder, so I've been using Jira and I've got like a flood of technical tasks that I would have to map.
So you just want me to like give you the abbreviated. Ticket of what encompasses a lot of the technical tasks that I've been coding lately.
Sure, I will say this part of I'm down to be overwhelmed and impressed. So, so here's an example.
Oh, okay, great.
Like, like just so you all know, you can create groups. So we can we can come up with categories, right?
So you can say for different subgroups at your company, you can say like technical. Goals or tasks.
Got.
As a as a group. And then you can add another group here. And call that like, you know, due diligent.
Yeah.
Protect our For example, so you can come up with all the categories that you have things to do in and an add to do for each of those.
Right? So, you know, LLC to C Corp.
Right.
Conversion. You know, that kind of thing. And you can move these to within the groups like that.
There's a lot of ways to do it.
Okay. Just a brief disclaimer. It's gonna be a ton of technical coding, Yeah.
I'm not afraid of you. I'm not afraid of you. Bringing on. Yeah, yeah.
So. Awesome, thanks. Thank you.
We're just curious to see. It's a way to get to know everybody and to see what people have going on.
Of course. Bye.
So, I want to give the time for you all to do that now that you understand the assignment, but before we break.
And give you all this time for the next hour and a half, let's say. Or in the next 30 min, how long it's gonna take you.
Any questions about this?
Oh, let me fix that. So pair anything made it phone like do section. So I want you to do it here.
Yeah, everyone's doing it. That's good. I'm gonna get rid of this tool that you call pair anything because that's actually just a to do list.
So I'm going to turn that off. There we go. Probably gonna get rid of that. There we go.
Sweet. So now we're in good shape. Now we're rocking. Look at that.
They're already doing it. I love this. Okay, folks, so we will, oh good.
Oh, no problem. Yeah.
Yeah, you can drop the link to what you're looking at right now in the chat. When he drops it, only the CEOs will be able to open it.
So for other people it may say that it has an error.
That's the link.
Great. Okay, so. Let me give you the run of show.
For this afternoon. We're going to go through some examples of what you all have. We're gonna do a breakout group where you're gonna reshape these to do's in the thought that we teach if need be.
And then we'll do a show and tell. And then we'll debrief and answer any questions.
So that's the run of show for the afternoon. But very simply. What I would love to do before we break though is answer any questions about everything that I talked about.
Because I covered a lot of Brown very quickly.
Matthew.
Maybe actually something that I don't think you talked about but curious about How you think about the axis important versus urgence?
Oh, like the Eisenhower matrix.
I try to use that. Yeah, well just like when I think about my to do sometimes I often try to wonder you know is it important is it urgent And by using this filter to look at a to do, I sometimes, downgrade a task because I realized that I thought it was urgent but in fact it's not and it's also not important so I put it at the bottom at the bottom of the list.
So I guess the question is about how do you prioritize your to do when you have like your set of of 10 tasks.
On your to do list.
That's great. And that is in part what we're going to talk about this afternoon, so I'll be sure to answer that question, but let me show you what I think.
Might be helpful right now or maybe you already know this. Have you seen it?
Yep.
Yeah, so this is we actually have you all do this at the end of. So once you've got all this feedback and perspective and you get overwhelmed with all these different thoughts about what you need to be overwhelmed with all these different thoughts about what you need to be doing or working on or what you should prioritize about what you need to be doing or working on or what you should prioritize.
We go through this with you should prioritize. We go through this with you and review it and then we help you actually execute on it and offer up some feedback and we help you actually execute on it and offer up some feedback and refining it if need be.
Was it helpful to run through this? Was this the good? Like, so we made a bet that it would be helpful to cover this before the program starts rather than doing it on a case by case basis or later on.
So hopefully it offers a reset opportunity for you with your team. If you already operate like this or in some way that you feel good about?
Awesome. I would love to hear more about what works for you so that I can share it with others and learn from you.
But also I'm happy to stick around. For as long as you all like for the remaining time to chat things up.
But you all are good to go until this afternoon and then we'll go through those to do's together and talk through some examples and then maybe break into working groups.
So refine it further.
Yeah, please.
Can I ask a question? Amazing. So I won't be able have a I have something I won't be able to join the next group and I'm the CEO.
Mark cannot see the to do because they are in the CEOs group. What's my deadline for when to put 2 dues together so you guys can work on that?
Is it just until the next meeting starts?
Oh
Okay
Okay.
The next 30 min. That's okay. You have 30 min. So if you put it in there, there are 2 options.
One, you can give your team member the to-do list into the company base camp project. Or you can write it in the CEO project and I'll pull it up for them to like get feedback on it edit in real time.
Great. Alright, thank you so much.
Yep.
Okay.
Any other questions? Yeah, Sahil.
Yeah, I'm just, trying to schedule some meetings, for next couple of weeks here.
I'm curious about week one. If there's Kind of an expected time. Slots that we should be leaving open for tech stars activities.
Yeah, I'm actually about to hit send so probably within 15 min you guys are gonna get this in your inbox
Awesome, thank you.
So I'm just gonna send it to the emails that everybody put in the class roster. If there was an issue with that or you haven't been getting stuff to that email, please let me know.
Pardo.
Yeah, I just wanted to ask, is there, could you actually go back to the steps that you went through earlier as far as activating that specific to do's feature on base camp.
I'm new to the base camp platform, so I'm still not. Thank you.
Not a problem at all. Yeah, let's do it. Let me pull it up again.
Okay, so what are we trying to do here?
I'll just be, I'll be your guiding hand.
Okay. I think I saw your earlier like go through the settings and activate the to do's feature or something along those lines.
I wasn't I don't. I mean.
Oh, you don't have to do any of that. So all you need to do, so here you have access to the CEOs base camp, right?
Okay. Got it. Okay.
So you click to dos. And you go to new list right here. Any type in the name of your list and then you can create your toadues.
Yep.
Okay, awesome. Thank you.
Brian?
Quick ask you to you had a hack there whereby you are putting things under like buckets the categories you know like may call them sub touch.
Okay, gotcha.
Yeah, you see this hamburger icon right here. You click that and you click add a group.
Okay.
Sweet.
Alright y'all, well, I'll see you at one o'clock. Looking forward to it.
Time to get real.
Thank you.
Toodles. Yeah.
Thank youThank you, much